 
 European Girls’ Mathematical Olympiad 
 HOME TIMELINE COUNTRIES PEOPLE REGULATIONS HISTORY CONTACT US 
 Past and future EGMOs 
 EGMO 2028 , Vilnius, Lithuania 
 EGMO 2027 , Šibenik, Croatia ( home page ) 
 EGMO 2026 , Bordeaux, France ( home page ) 
 EGMO 2025 , Prishtina, Kosovo ( home page ) 
 EGMO 2024 , Tskaltubo, Georgia ( home page ) 
 EGMO 2023 , Portorož, Slovenia ( home page ) 
 EGMO 2022 , Eger, Hungary (hybrid) ( home page ) 
 EGMO 2021 , Kutaisi, Georgia (virtual) ( home page ) 
 EGMO 2020 , Egmond aan Zee, Netherlands (virtual) ( home page ) 
 EGMO 2019 , Kyiv, Ukraine 
 EGMO 2018 , Florence, Italy ( home page ) 
 EGMO 2017 , Zürich, Switzerland 
 EGMO 2016 , Bușteni, Romania ( home page ) 
 EGMO 2015 , Minsk, Belarus 
 EGMO 2014 , Antalya, Türkiye ( home page ) 
 EGMO 2013 , Luxembourg City, Luxembourg 
 EGMO 2012 , Cambridge, United Kingdom ( home page ) 
 Welcome to the European Girls’ Mathematical Olympiad (EGMO) 
 About 
 The European Girls’ Mathematical Olympiad (EGMO) is the
premier European mathematics competition, made exclusively for high
school female students who enjoy mathematics beyond the regular school
curriculum. Started by the United Kingdom in April 2012, EGMO has
grown since then and now includes over sixty countries, welcoming
participants from beyond Europe. 
 Concept 
 EGMO aims to inspire girls to take part in national and
international mathematics competitions, providing more opportunities
for mathematical development. It serves as a platform to amplify the
presence of young female mathematicians on the global stage with the
possibility to find associates and make remarkable connections while
fostering cultural exchange among teenagers worldwide. It encourages
young females to become scientists and boosts the number of girls in
IMO teams. 
 Participation 
 Participation is by invitation only, with each country nominating
up to four students. Like the International Mathematical Olympiad,
EGMO unfolds over two days, featuring three problems each day. Medals
are awarded to about half of the students, with additional recognition
for outstanding problem-solving skills. 
 The EGMO Board 
 The EGMO Board is the guiding force behind the European
Girls’ Mathematical Olympiad that makes the recommendations for
future events. More information about
the EGMO Board . 
 Based on a design by: 
 EGMO data protection information 
