                                                                               Language: English
EG
MO                                                                                              Day: 1




                                                                                   Saturday, April 11, 2026

Problem 1. A 2026 × 2026 board is said to be bordeaux if at least one of its 20262 unit cells is
coloured red. A rectangular region made of cells is oddly-rectangular if it contains an odd number of
red cells. Determine the largest positive integer M such that, in every possible 2026 × 2026 bordeaux
board, there exists an oddly-rectangular region of at least M cells.
Note: A rectangular region has sides that are parallel to the sides of the board and contains all of its
interior.

Problem 2. Given a positive integer n, Marie plays a game where she starts with the number 1
on a blackboard. As many times as she wants, she can choose an    integer
                                                                            j such that 1 ≤ j ≤ n and
replace the number V on the blackboard with the number j · R j . Here, R(x) denotes the nearest
                                                                  V

integer to x; if x is exactly halfway between two consecutive integers, it is rounded up. For example,
R(1.3) = 1 and R(1.5) = R(1.8) = 2.

  a) Prove that for each given n, there is a positive integer B such that Marie can never end up with
     a number larger than B on the blackboard.

  b) For any given n, let f (n) be the maximum number obtainable on the blackboard after finitely
     many replacements. Show that there exists a positive integer N such that for all n ≥ N , we
     have that 2026 divides f (n).

Problem 3. Let R be the set of real numbers. Determine all functions f : R → R such that for all
real numbers x, y, the following holds:

                                 f ((f (x) + f (y))2 ) = (x + y)f (x + y).




Language: English                                                             Time: 4 hours and 30 minutes
                                                                             Each problem is worth 7 points
