                                                             English (eng), day 1




                                                                            Wednesday, 15. July 2026

Problem 1. There are 2026 integers greater than 1 written on a blackboard, not necessarily dif-
ferent. In a move, Confucius chooses two integers m > 1 and n > 1 from different places on the
blackboard and replaces these two integers with

                                                         lcm(m, n)
                                 gcd(m, n)      and                .
                                                         gcd(m, n)

He continues to make moves while it is possible to do so.

(a) Prove that, regardless of the choices of Confucius, after finitely many moves, exactly one integer
    M on the blackboard is greater than 1.

(b) Prove that the value of M does not depend on the choices of Confucius.

(Note that gcd(x, y) denotes the greatest common divisor of positive integers x and y, and lcm(x, y)
denotes the least common multiple of x and y.)

Problem 2. Let ABC be a triangle and let points M and N be the midpoints of sides AB and AC,
respectively. Let points K and L be chosen strictly inside triangles BM C and BN C, respectively,
such that K lies strictly inside triangle ABL and L lies strictly inside triangle AKC. Suppose that

             ∠KBA = ∠ACL,            ∠LBK = ∠LN C,          and        ∠LCK = ∠BM K.

Let O be the circumcentre of triangle AKL. Prove that OM = ON .

Problem 3. Let n be a positive integer. Liu Bang and Xiang Yu have a stick of length 1 and want
to divide it between themselves. Liu marks at most n points on the stick, and then Xiang marks
at most n points on the stick. The marked points are distinct. Then, the stick is cut at all marked
points, creating a number of pieces. Afterwards, they take turns claiming any unclaimed piece of the
stick, with Liu going first. Each player’s goal is to maximise the total length of their own pieces.
For each n, determine the largest value c such that Liu may guarantee a total length of at least c,
regardless of Xiang’s play.




Language: English                                                      Time: 4 hours and 30 minutes.
                                                                       Each problem is worth 7 points.
                                                                 English (eng), day 2




                                                                                  Thursday, 16. July 2026

Problem 4. Shan-Yu and Mulan are playing a game. Let θ be an angle with 0◦ < θ < 180◦ known
to both players. Initially, Shan-Yu makes a paper triangle T with measurements of his choice. Then,
they repeatedly perform the following steps:

   • If T has at least one angle measuring exactly θ, then the game stops and Mulan wins.

   • Otherwise, Mulan chooses a point P on the perimeter of T , different from its three vertices.
     She then makes a straight cut from P to the opposite vertex of T , splitting it into two triangles.

   • Shan-Yu discards one of the two triangles. The remaining triangle becomes the new T .

For which real values of θ can Mulan guarantee her victory in finitely many steps, no matter how
Shan-Yu plays?

Problem 5.      Let R>0 be the set of positive real numbers. Determine all functions f : R>0 → R>0
such that
                                    x2 + f (y)2   f (x) + y   »
                                                ≥           ≥  xf (y)
                                        2             2
for every x, y ∈ R>0 .

Problem 6. Let a1 , a2 , a3 , . . . be an infinite sequence of positive integers greater than 1. Suppose
that for all positive integers n, the number an+1 is the smallest positive integer greater than an such
that gcd(an+1 , ai ) > 1 for every i = 1, 2, . . . , n. Prove that there exist positive integers T and L such
that
                                                  an+T = an + L
for every positive integer n.
(Note that gcd(x, y) denotes the greatest common divisor of positive integers x and y.)




Language: English                                                         Time: 4 hours and 30 minutes.
                                                                          Each problem is worth 7 points.
