                                      INMO 2026
                                     Common mistakes
                                     February 18, 2026


Problem 1. Most of the errors for this problem consisted of assuming statements with-
out proving them. We list a few of them below:

  1. Given xk = m2 , assuming the form of xk+i without proof (or after checking a few
     numbers, and then saying “similarly, we can prove that”).
                                                                                     √
  2. Trying to prove the forms of xk+i inductively, but not justifying the value of ⌊ xk+i ⌋
     by bounding xk+i between squares.

  3. While showing that the square that comes after m2 is 4m2 , not justifying why none
     of the intermediate terms are perfect squares.
                                                    √
  4. Assuming the claim that the sequence an = ⌊ xn ⌋ contains every number two or
     three times and m appears three times iff there is some k for which xk = m2 without
     proof.

  5. While trying to prove the above claim, only showing that m appears three times iff
     there is some k for which xk = m2 , but not showing that every other number appears
     twice.
  6. Given the above claim, claiming that this implies that if xk = m2 , then xk+2m+1 =
     m2 + 3m + 2(m + 1) + · · · + 2(2m − 1) = 4m2 . (Note that, to show this, we need to ensure
     that the intermediate squares do not appear in our sequence (xn ).)

Problem 2. One of the errors for this question was misunderstanding the definition of
the function f . We list some of the other errors below:
  1. Assuming that the function f takes infinitely many different values without proving
     it.
  2. Claiming that if f (n) = k where n > 2026 and k does not appear in f (1), f (2), . . . , f (n −
     1), then f (n) = f (n + f (n)), but not proving this claim.
  3. Proving the above claim and claiming that this implies the problem without justifying
     why we can find infinitely many pairs (k, n) as in the claim.

  4. Taking the first n > 2026 such that f (n) = k does not appear in f (1), f (2), . . . , f (2026),
     then claiming that for every l ≥ k, if nl > k is the smallest number for which f (nl ) = l,
     then f (nl ) = f (nl + f (nl )). (This will not be true if the number l appears in the
     sequence f (1), f (2), . . . , f (2026).)

Problem 3.

  1. The most common mistake was reasoning based on isosceles triangle diagrams
     where A, M, N are collinear. A related mistake is reasoning from diagrams that are
     special cases of the problem.
  2. A common misstep was attempting an angle chase without any additional construc-
     tion.
  3. Many incomplete trigonometric/coordinate/complex calculations.




                                                 1
Problem 4.
  1. The most common error was usually in the attempt to show pn + 1 and p + 1 are
     not companions . Here you need to first rule out the n even case, which many have
     done. However, the n odd case is more subtle and needs to be handled by a careful
     use of the Lifting the Exponent Lemma.
  2. Another common mistake is to not give proper attribution to the theorems one needs,
     for example Dirichlet’s theorem or Kobayashi’s Theorem.
  3. In the application of Zsigmondy’s theorem, it needs to be made clear that the edge
     cases are being handled carefully.

Problem 5.   There are no points for the following -
   • Incomplete trigonometric/coordinate/complex calculations.
   • The observation that the reflection of the orthocentre of a triangle in any of the sides
     lies on the circumcircle.
   • Making this incorrect argument - If H is the orthocentre, then Hi are concyclic,
     which makes all Hij concyclic, which makes all Hijk concyclic.
   • Claiming that P is the centre of the circle on which all Pijk lie.

   This argument is incomplete: “P lies on the perpendicular bisectors of AB, CD, EF .
So, the six points A, B, C, D, E, F are concyclic.” There is a missing step here; one needs
to show that P A = P C = P E.

Problem 6.
  1. A common mistake is to assume that a1 beats every card in b1 , . . . , b39 and is evenly
     matched with b40 and so on. This gives a time of at most 820 minutes. One can do
     better if a1 does not interact with b39 as given in the official solution.
  2. A common attempt is to use some sort of probabilistic interpretation or a combina-
     torial interpretation based on the factorisation of 356 × 60 = 21360 minutes. Most of
     these have been wrong.

  3. Some have claimed that it takes at most n2 −n+1 minutes for the first evenly matched
     pair to appear on top. However, their proof goes something like this: n2 pairs are
     possible to appear on top. n pairs are evenly matched and by PHP, n2 − n + 1 minutes
     will give us an evenly matched pair on top. But this argument doesn’t count for
     loops of unevenly matched or non-interacting cards occurring in the middle of the
     game. An argument has to be made to rule these cases out.




                                              2
