            Central European Olympiad in Informatics 2026
                           Day 2 - solutions



Flower Cutting
The edge growing process adds diagonals to every square (cycle on 4 nodes) and turns it into a clique on
4 nodes. If a part of the graph is sufficiently dense, it will grow into a clique. Any edge that is not a part of
some clique can not be regrown and therefore can not be removed. Maximal cliques can’t share an edge
because they would merge into a larger clique. However, they can share nodes. We need to efficiently find
maximal cliques in the graph and figure out how many edges are needed to start the regrowth of a clique
of a given size.

subtask 1 There are very few edges, therefore we can consider removing all 2M subsets of them and
simulate the regrowing of the tree.

subtask 2 The graph is one large clique. We can derive a formula for the number of remaining edges in
pruned cliques. Consider a pruned graph that will regrow into a clique of size c. Can we adapt this solution
so that it will regrow into a clique of size c + 1 or c + 2? If we want to extend this graph with one node,
we can attach it to any two existing nodes. The missing edges to all other nodes will regrow. However, if
we want to extend it with two nodes, we can be more efficient with just three new edges — attach each
of them with one edge to existing graph and use the third edge to connect them with each other. You can
see that all other edges will again regrow. Therefore, the optimal structure can have a ladder structure.
The number of remaining edges for a clique with c nodes is:
                                              (
                                                3c/2 − 2, if c is even
                                      f (c) =
                                                3(c − 1)/2, if c is odd

Proving that this intuitive approach is indeed optimal is rather tricky. The easiest method to convince
yourself is to simply submit a solution for this subtask.

subtask 3 The degree of each node is limited to 7, therefore the number of edges can’t exceed 4N . This
allows less efficient searches for cliques in the graph (e.g. in O(M 2 )) and √
                                                                              non-explicit
                                                                                       √ formulas for the
number of edges in a pruned clique because the size of a clique can’t exceed M = 2 N .

subtask 4    This subtask allows potential less efficient polynomial solutions with higher exponents.

subtask 5 In this subtask we’re dealing with a large number of edges, therefore we will need a efficient
way of finding all maximal cliques. We also need to be careful that we don’t consider the same clique
multiple times. We can iterate over every edge (a, b) and look for cliques where this is the smallest edge.
We need to find all common neighbors of a and b. Because the graph is a result of a completed growth,
we know that they form a clique. We already know the minimum number of edges required to regrow a
clique. To prevent considering the same clique multiple times, we can iterate over all edges that are part
of the discovered clique and mark them as visited. This finds all cliques in O(M N ).




                                                       1
Towers
The task requires that we pair up all computers and connect each pair with a cable visiting potentially
several towers to maximize the total sum of cable scores. We need to determine the optimal way of using
the towers for connecting pairs of computers and the optimal way of pairing the computers. It makes sense
to start by sorting the computers and towers (from left to right).

subtask 1 There is only one tower in this subtask. For a given pair of computers, we can check what is
more efficient: a direct connection or a connection via the tower. This depends on the distance from the
tower to the closest computer in the pair.
   We claim that it is optimal to pair up adjacent computers in a sorted order. Consider two overlapping
pairs of computers, which should not be necessary for an optimal solution. If neither of the pairs uses the
tower, we can obviously reduce the distance and improve the score by changing the pairing. If both pairs
connect to the tower, the score depends on the sum of distances from computers to the tower, therefore it
doesn’t matter how we pair them at all. The final case is a pair that connects to a tower and another that
doesn’t. The pair that doesn’t must be further from the tower, otherwise it would connect to it. We can
again see that changing the pairing reduces the sum of distances.

subtask 2 The second subtask has very few computers, where we can afford to consider all possible
pairings. It also makes sense to precompute the optimal tower connections for all n2 pairs of computers.
We can simply consider all possible leftmost and rightmost towers. It is obvious that the optimal cable
that minimizes the length will start at the left computer, visit the leftmost tower, continue to the rightmost
tower and back to the right computer, while visiting all towers in between.

subtask 3 We need to be more efficient in computing optimal connections via some towers. Observe that
the cable from computer a to b will have a score comprised of the distance (and towers) between them
and the contribution from an extension to the left from a and an extension to the right from b. For every
computer we precompute the optimal extensions to the left and to the right (li and ri ) in O(nm). This
enables us to compute the cost of an optimal cable between two computers in O(1).
     Now we have to pair the computers optimally, which we can do with dynamic programming in O(n2 ).
We will build the pairs from left to right and keep track of how many computers are still unpaired. Let
f (i, u) define the maximum score to pair the first i computers so that there are still u unpaired among
them (this includes the score of the unpaired computers up to the i-th one). The i-th computer could start
a new pair or close some unpaired computer (note that it doesn’t matter which one exactly). If it starts
a new pair, the score corresponds to li − (u − 1)ci + f (i − 1, u − 1), because u − 1 unpaired computers
span the gap between computers i − 1 and i, with the contribution ci for each of them (comprised of the
distance and the number of towers in between). Similarly, if it closes an unpaired computer, the score
corresponds to ri − (u + 1)ci + f (i + 1, u + 1), because there had to be u + 1 unpaired computers among
the first i − 1.

subtask 4 We can be more efficient in the precomputation of optimal extensions to the left (li ) and right
(ri ) from each computer. The left extension from computer i could stop at some tower between computer
i − 1 and i. If it extends further left than computer i − 1, we already know the optimal extension for that
case — li−1 . This allows us to precompute these values in O(n + m) instead of O(nm) as in the previous
subtask.

subtask 5 Let us consider all computer as starting/left ends of the pair: make an optimal left extension
from each computer and draw the cable all the way to the far right edge. Then we have to pick some
closing/right computer. This adds an optimal right extension, subtracts its previous starting orientation
and the contribution from the cable to the far right that it closes. Note that this change di doesn’t depend
on the location from where the cable that it closes actually starts.
    The problem reduces to selecting n/2 elements with the maximum sum in an array of changes di such
that there are at most i/2 selected elements in every prefix of length i. This problem has an efficient
greedy solution. We maintain a set of the ⌊i/2⌋ selected elements from the first i elements. When we
process the next element, we add it to our selected set and if the set exceeds the new capacity, we eject
the smallest selected element. At the end, we are left with the optimal solution. We can implement this



                                                      2
greedy algorithm in O(n log n) by storing the selected elements in a heap. The proofs of optimality are
rather cumbersome or rely on advanced techniques, but the algorithm is easy to implement and test with
a submission to the judge system.


VIM
We need to find the minimum number of moves to produce a string consisting of n characters starting
from a single one.

subtask 1 The state can be described by the current number of characters in the string, the location of
the cursor and the content/size of the clipboard. Note that it is more convenient to describe the cursor
location as an offset from the right end of the string. This way the location increases by 1 independent of
the size of the inserted content. This makes for O(n3 ) states and we need to consider 4 operations every
time. A simple breadth-first search should suffice for small values of n.

subtask 2 Let us make some observations to decrease the number of considered states. First, it seems
that
   √ there is no need to ever move the cursor to the right. Second, we can produce a string√of length
O( n) by copying and pasting a single character. Then√   copy the entire string and paste it O( n) times.
This means that we can produce n characters in L = O( n) operations. Therefore, it doesn’t make sense
to explore states where the location of the cursor exceeds our upper-bound estimate L (since we could
already produce a solution in the number of operations that are required to get the cursor into a position).
Consequently,
     √ √       the size of the clipboard cannot exceed L either. This way we can reduce the state-space to
O(n n n) = O(n2 ).

subtask 3 If we observe the solutions for increasing string lengths n, we will notice that they consist of
blocks that start with some moves to the left, a copy and a sequence of paste operations. At some point
the O(n2 ) space complexity becomes a problem because
                                                  √       we need to reconstruct solutions. To circumvent
this, we can reduce the number of states to O(n n) that represent
                                                                √ the size of the string and the cursor
location. Transitions between
                      √       states consist of a sequence of O( n) moves to the left, followed by a copy
and a sequence of O( n) pastes. We can optimize each of these two steps (number of moves √    and number
of pastes) independently to get a solution with O(n2 ) time complexity that requires just O(n n) space.

subtasks 4-6 To handle larger problems we can again observe the solutions that we are able to compute
so far. For small values of n, the solutions behave rather unpredictably. However, for larger values (for
example, n > 1000), the solutions become nicely increasing. We can also observe that the left moves
become irrelevant. We can solve the small cases with previously presented approaches and focus on these
larger values. Let us determine the longest string f (m) that we can produce in m moves. Remember that
we measure the offset of the cursor from the right side and a paste operation actually increases this offset
by 1. To produce the longest string we can clearly ignore any moves to the right as well as moves to the left
(because we can achieve the same or more with a paste operation). The optimal sequence will therefore
consist of k groups of a copy and several paste operations (YP...P). Let ni denote the number of paste
operations in group i.
                                  m = n1 + n2 + ... + nk + k
                      f (n1 , . . . , nk ) = 1 + (1)n1 + (1 + n1 )n2 + (1 + n1 + n2 )n3 + ...
                                                                         P 2
                                                 (m − k)2                  ni
                                           =1+             + (m − k) −
                                                     2                     2
We can see that the order of groups is irrelevant, just their sizes
                                                                P play a role in the length of the produced
string. For a fixed number of groups k, we need to maximize ni 2 subject to n1 + n2 + ... + nk = m − k.
Ideally, ni would be the same and equal to (m − k)/k. Round this value down and distribute the remainder
by adding 1 to some terms ni . We can consider increasing
                                                   √         values of m until we find one where f (m) ≥ n
(we know that the number of required moves is O( n)). To determine f (m), we can again simply consider
all values of k ∈ [1, m/2]. This gives us an O(n) solution. Note that we could be more efficient to get a
sublinear solution, but there is no need. We have described how to determine the magnitude of the solution
but not how to actually construct it, which gives us half of the points.



                                                        3
    We know that the solution requires m moves. However, the strategy for constructing the longest string
might produce a solution that is longer that n. Our goal is to change the values of ni in such a way that
f (n1 , . . . , nk ) drops to exactly n. One possible strategy is the following. Note that if ni = nj , decreasing
one of them by 1 and increasing the other one actually decreases the solution by 1. It would be beneficial
if we had many groups of equal size to give us fine-grained control over the solution. We can start by
trying to increase the number of groups in the longest solution as long as it still generates a sufficiently
long string. This gives us more groups and decreases the gap. Then, we repeatedly move a paste operation
(decrease ni ) from the second largest to the largest group. This effectively increases the largest group
as much as possible while maintaining a similar size of the other groups. If an additional increase of
the largest group would make the solution too short, we ignore the largest group from there on and try
to optimize the length of the solution with the remaining groups that are hopefully of similar size. The
process doesn’t have to be particularly efficient because we are dealing with relatively few groups. You
can test this or any other strategy on a range of values n and check that they indeed manage to adjust the
longest solution f (m) to the length of exactly n. We can also formally prove that for sufficiently large n
(n > 10 000), this approach always finds a solution.




                                                        4
