CEOI 2026




   Day 1
   (English)
CEOI 2026                  Day 1




            Page 2 of 11
CEOI 2026                                                                                  Day 1



                                     Birdwatchers
                         Time limit: 10 s      Memory limit: 512 MiB

The Birdwatchers’ Society of San Serriffe has a curiously bloated and ever-changing inter-
nal structure. The Society consists of 𝑛 chapters, and each member of the Society belongs
to exactly one chapter. The chapters are numbered from 1 to 𝑛 and the 𝑖’th chapter
has 𝑚𝑖 members. Thus the Society has a total of 𝑀 = 𝑚1 + 𝑚2 + . . . + 𝑚𝑛 members.
    Each chapter is led by one of its members, who in this role is called the officer of the
chapter. The officers are numbered the same as the chapters, so that (for each 𝑖 = 1, . . . , 𝑛)
officer 𝑖 is the one in charge of chapter 𝑖.
    Moreover, the officers are organized hierarchically through a system of mentorship:
each officer except one has a mentor, who is the officer of some other chapter. The only
officer without a mentor is the President of the Society. If officer 𝑎 is the mentor of officer
𝑏, we also say that officer 𝑏 is a disciple of officer 𝑎. No officer is, directly or indirectly,
a mentor of themselves; thus, by following the sequence from an officer to their mentor,
their mentor’s mentor, and so on, we eventually always reach the President.
    We define the influence of an officer as the sum of the number of members in his
chapter and of the influences of all his disciples (if he has any). It will be easily seen that
the officer with the highest influence is the President, whose influence always equals 𝑀 .
An officer is called a senior officer if his influence is ≥ 𝑀/2.
    The Bylaws of the Society specify that the senior officer with the lowest influence
(amongst all the senior officers) shall act as the Treasurer of the Society.
    From time to time, an officer (other than the President) may change his allegiance,
so that he is thenceforth the disciple of a different mentor than before (provided that his
new mentor is not one of his disciples, or his disciples’ disciples, etc.). Because of this, it
can happen that the influence of some officers changes and the role of Treasurer falls to a
different officer than before.

Task
Write a program that reads the description of the initial state of the Society and a sequence
of changes of allegiance. Your program must print who the Treasurer is in the initial state
of the Society as well as after each change of allegiance.

Input
The first line contains two integers, 𝑛 and 𝑞, separated by a space; 𝑛 is the number of
chapters, 𝑞 is the number of changes of allegiance.
    The next 𝑛 lines describe the initial state of the Society. The 𝑖’th of these lines contains
two integers, 𝑠𝑖 and 𝑚𝑖 , separated by a space; 𝑠𝑖 is the mentor of officer 𝑖 (i.e. of the officer
in charge of chapter 𝑖), while 𝑚𝑖 is the number of members of chapter 𝑖. The value 𝑠𝑖 = 0
indicates that officer 𝑖 is the President of the Society and thus has no mentor.
    The remaining 𝑞 lines describe the changes of allegiance. The 𝑗’th of these lines
contains two integers, 𝑥ˆ𝑗 and 𝑧ˆ𝑗 , separated by a space. The meaning of these integers is
as follows. Let us denote by 𝑡𝑗 (for 𝑗 = 0, . . . , 𝑞) the Treasurer after the first 𝑗 changes
of allegiance (thus 𝑡0 is the initial Treasurer before the first change of allegiance). Then
the 𝑗’th change of allegiance consists of officer 𝑧𝑗 becoming the new mentor of officer 𝑥𝑗 ,

                                          Page 3 of 11
CEOI 2026                                Birdwatchers                                        Day 1


where 𝑥𝑗 = 1 + ((𝑡𝑗−1 + 𝑥ˆ𝑗 ) mod 𝑛) and 𝑧𝑗 = 1 + ((𝑡𝑗−1 + 𝑧ˆ𝑗 ) mod 𝑛). The purpose of this
representation of the values 𝑥𝑗 and 𝑧𝑗 is to force your program to process the changes of
allegiance in the order in which they appear.
    The changes of allegiance in the input data will always be valid, i.e. 𝑧𝑗 will not be
equal to 𝑥𝑗 , nor will 𝑧𝑗 be a disciple of 𝑥𝑗 , a disciple of a disciple of 𝑥𝑗 , etc. It is, however,
possible that 𝑧𝑗 was already the mentor of 𝑥𝑗 just before the 𝑗’th change (so that nothing
actually changes at that point).
    Note that if your program calculates the wrong result 𝑡𝑗 at some point, it will decode
the subsequent inputs 𝑥ˆ𝑗+1 , 𝑧ˆ𝑗+1 , etc., incorrectly as well, and might crash with an RTE
(runtime error) verdict instead of a WA (wrong answer) verdict because the incorrectly
decoded inputs might be invalid (e.g. it might erroneously obtain a 𝑧𝑗+1 which is a disciple
of 𝑥𝑗+1 ).

Constraints

   • 1 ≤ 𝑛 ≤ 1 000 000

   • 1 ≤ 𝑞 ≤ 30 000

   • 1 ≤ 𝑚𝑖 for each 𝑖 = 1, . . . , 𝑛

   • 𝑚1 + 𝑚2 + . . . + 𝑚𝑛 ≤ 109

   • 1 ≤ 𝑥ˆ𝑗 ≤ 𝑛 and 1 ≤ 𝑧ˆ𝑗 ≤ 𝑛 for each 𝑗 = 1, . . . , 𝑞.

Subtasks

   • Subtask 1 (15 points): 𝑛 ≤ 100

   • Subtask 2 (10 points): 𝑛 ≤ 1000

   • Subtask 3 (50 points): 𝑛 ≤ 300 000

   • Subtask 4 (25 points): No additional constraints.

Output
Print the numbers 𝑡0 , 𝑡1 , . . . , 𝑡𝑞 , each on its own line, where 𝑡𝑗 is the Treasurer after
the first 𝑗 changes of allegiance. Naturally, each 𝑡𝑗 must be an integer from the range
1 ≤ 𝑡𝑗 ≤ 𝑛.




                                           Page 4 of 11
CEOI 2026                              Birdwatchers                                      Day 1


Example

Input                                             Output

7 2                                               2
0 1                                               2
1 3                                               3
1 3
2 3
2 1
5 2
5 1
3 7
2 7


Comment

Initially, officer 2 is the Treasurer (hence 𝑡0 = 2). In the first change of allegiance, we read
𝑥ˆ1 = 3 and 𝑧ˆ1 = 7 and calculate 𝑥1 = 1+((2+3) mod 7) = 6 and 𝑧1 = 1+((2+7) mod 7) =
3; thus, officer 3 becomes the new mentor of officer 6; officer 2 remains Treasurer (hence
𝑡1 = 2). In the second change of allegiance, we read 𝑥ˆ2 = 2 and 𝑧ˆ2 = 7 and calculate
𝑥2 = 1 + ((2 + 2) mod 7) = 5 and 𝑧2 = 1 + ((2 + 7) mod 7) = 3; thus, officer 3 becomes
the new mentor of officer 5 and also becomes the new Treasurer (hence 𝑡2 = 3).




                                         Page 5 of 11
CEOI 2026   Birdwatchers    Day 1




             Page 6 of 11
CEOI 2026                                                                            Day 1



                                            DFS
                        Time limit: 1 s       Memory limit: 256 MiB

You might already be familiar with the famous DFS (depth-first search) algorithm for
traversing a graph. In this problem, we will only consider connected undirected simple
graphs (without loops and parallel edges) with vertices numbered 0, 1, . . ., 𝑛 − 1, and the
DFS algorithm will output depths and vertices as follows:

DFS(d, v):
    output d/v
    mark vertex v as visited
    W = the list of neighbors of v ordered by increasing numbers
    for each w in W:
        if vertex w has not yet been visited:
            DFS(d + 1, w)

   Write a program that outputs the number of different graphs for which the call
DFS(0, n - 1) produces the same printout as the one given on the input. For example,
the output

0/2
1/0
2/1

   is produced by calling DFS(0, 2) on either of the following two connected undirected
simple 3-vertex graphs:




                                          Page 7 of 11
CEOI 2026                                  DFS                                         Day 1


Input
The input is the output of the call DFS(0, n - 1) on an unknown 𝑛-vertex connected
undirected simple graph. The input thus consists of 𝑛 lines in the format d/v, with the
first line being 0/n-1.

Constraints

   • 1 ≤ 𝑛 ≤ 2 · 105

Subtasks

   • Subtask 1 (10 points): 𝑛 ≤ 6.

   • Subtask 2 (20 points): 𝑛 ≤ 500.

   • Subtask 3 (20 points): 𝑛 ≤ 104 .

   • Subtask 4 (10 points): For each 𝑖 ∈ {2, . . . , 𝑛}, the 𝑖-th input line is i-1/i-2.

   • Subtask 5 (20 points): For each 𝑖 ∈ {2, . . . , 𝑛}, the 𝑖-th input line is i-1/v for some
     𝑣 ∈ {0, . . . , 𝑛 − 2}.

   • Subtask 6 (20 points): No additional constraints.

Output
Print the number of different graphs with the required property. Because this number
can be very large, output the result modulo 1 000 000 007.

Example

Input                                            Output

0/2                                              2
1/0
2/1




                                        Page 8 of 11
CEOI 2026                                                                               Day 1



                                   Treasure Hunt
                         Time limit: 8 s       Memory limit: 256 MiB

You are searching for a long-lost treasure on a massive 𝑁 × 𝑁 field of cells with a magical
compass. There are a total of 𝐾 ≤ 3 treasure chests hidden at various distinct cells in
the field. Your goal is simple: to find them all!
    When you place the compass on one of the cells, it will find the shortest paths to
a treasure chest using only moves left, up, right, and down (i.e. a closest treasure chest
according to Manhattan distance). It will then show the direction of the first move. If
multiple valid first moves lead to a closest treasure chest (or several of them), the compass
will return all of them. If the cell contains treasure, the compass will indicate that instead.
    Whenever you find a treasure chest, you empty the contents, but you cannot remove
the chest – it is too heavy. Your compass does not know whether a chest is full or empty.
It will point the way to a closest chest, empty or full.
    Try to find the location of all treasure chests in the fewest compass queries possible.

Task
This is an interactive task. In each test case (i.e. each execution of your program), your
program will have to solve several treasure hunts. You should interact with the grader by
using a library provided by the organisers. This library contains the following declarations:

   • void NextHunt(int &N, int &K ) — call this function to start the next treasure
     hunt. It will set the grid size in the variable N and the number of treasures in K. If
     there are no more treasure hunts to be solved in the current run, the function will
     set N and K to −1; in that case, you should then terminate your program with the
     exit code 0. Note that you may call this function before finding all the treasures on
     the current hunt, e.g. if you are trying to only solve for partial points.

   • enum { TREASURE = 0, DIR_RIGHT = 1, DIR_UP = 2, DIR_LEFT = 4,
     DIR_DOWN = 8 }; — these are constants used in the return values of the Query
     function (see below).

   • int Query(int x, int y) — if the cell at coordinates (𝑥, 𝑦) contains a treasure,
     this function returns TREASURE. Otherwise it returns the sum of one or more of
     the constants DIR_RIGHT, DIR_UP, DIR_LEFT, and DIR_DOWN, indicating
     which moves the compass returns when placed on the cell (𝑥, 𝑦). The coordinates 𝑥
     and 𝑦 must be integers from 0 to 𝑁 − 1. (Note: in this task, 𝑦-coordinates increase
     from top to bottom.)

    After NextHunt sets 𝑁 = 𝐾 = −1, your program must not call either NextHunt or
Query again. It must also not call Query before the first call to NextHunt. If your program
fails to observe these constraints, or if it makes more than 1000 queries within a single
treasure hunt, or if it provides out-of-range values of 𝑥 and/or 𝑦 when calling Query, the
library will terminate your program and return a run-time-error (RTE) verdict for the
current test case.



                                           Page 9 of 11
CEOI 2026                            Treasure Hunt                                    Day 1


    A treasure is considered to have been found if you queried the cell containing it at
least once. If your program calls NextHunt before finding all the treasures of the current
hunt, this is not treated as an error, but it will affect your score (more on scoring below).
    To access the library, your program should include the header file treasurehuntlib.h:

  #include "treasurehuntlib.h"

   You can download this header file here: treasurehuntlib.h.
   To help you in developing your solution, a simple implementation of the library is
available here: treasurehuntlib-public.cpp. To compile it together with your pro-
gram, simply add its name as a parameter to the compiler, e.g.:

  g++ foo.cpp treasurehuntlib-public.cpp

    if foo.cpp is the name of the file containing your solution.
    The implementation in treasurehuntlib-public.cpp supports, in addition to the
above declarations, another function called void InitFromFile(const char *fileName),
which reads a list of treasure hunts from a file and lets you play the game with those
instead of generating its own random treasure hunts. You will find more details inside
treasurehuntlib-public.cpp itself.
    On the evaluation server, a different implementation of the library will be used, so
you should not make any assumptions about how exactly the implementation works. You
may, however, assume that it does not pollute the global namespace with any declarations
other than those listed above (NextHunt, Query, and the five constants).
    Your code must not read from the standard input or write to the standard output,
because those will be used by our implementation of the library on the evaluation server
to communicate with the rest of the evaluation environment.

Input
Constraints

   • 2 ≤ 𝑁 ≤ 106

   • 1≤𝐾≤3

   • Within any single execution of your program, there will be at most 100 000 treasure
     hunts.

   • Within any single treasure hunt, you may make at most 1000 queries.

   • The grading system is not adaptive.

Subtasks

   • Subtask 1 (10 points) 𝐾 = 1

   • Subtask 2 (30 points) 𝐾 = 2

   • Subtask 3 (60 points) 𝐾 = 3.


                                       Page 10 of 11
CEOI 2026                              Treasure Hunt                                       Day 1


Scoring
A subtask may consist of several test cases (several executions of your program), and each
test case may consist of several treasure hunts. For the purposes of scoring, all the treasure
hunts of a given subtask are evaluated together, regardless of how they were originally
split amongst the test cases. For the 𝑖-th treasure hunt, let us denote the grid size by
𝑁𝑖 × 𝑁𝑖 , the number of treasures by 𝐾𝑖 , the number of queries made by your program by
𝑄𝑖 and the number of treasures found by your program by 𝐹𝑖 . Let us furthermore denote
by 𝑆 the total number of points available for this subtask. Then the number of points
awarded to your program for this subtask is:

   • If your program always found all the treasures (i.e. if 𝐹𝑖 = 𝐾𝑖 for all 𝑖), its score
     depends on 𝑡𝑖 = ⌈log𝑄𝑖𝑁𝑖 ⌉ :
                            2

                                                     ⎧
                                                     ⎨ 1,               𝑡𝑖 ≤ 11
           𝑆 𝑆
             + · min 𝑓 (𝑡𝑖 ) points, where 𝑓 (𝑡𝑖 ) =   1 − (𝑡𝑖 − 11)/9, 11 ≤ 𝑡𝑖 ≤ 20
           2  2   𝑖
                                                       0,               𝑡 ≥ 20.
                                                     ⎩


   • If your program did not always find all the treasures (i.e. there exists an 𝑖 such that
     𝐹𝑖 < 𝐾𝑖 ), it receives
                                      𝑆        𝐹𝑖
                                        · min     points.
                                      2    𝑖 𝐾𝑖


    In other words, you get half of the points for finding all the treasures, and the other
half for finding them in as few queries as possible. For a perfect score, your solution
should find all the treasures in at most 11⌈log2 𝑁𝑖 ⌉ queries. Between 11⌈log2 𝑁𝑖 ⌉ and
20⌈log2 𝑁𝑖 ⌉ queries, the score decreases linearly; and if your solution makes more than
20⌈log2 𝑁𝑖 ⌉ queries, it will only get the first half of the points for finding all the treasures.
(The symbols ⌈·⌉ mean that the value of log2 𝑁𝑖 is rounded up to the nearest integer.)
    If the formulas above result in a non-integer number of points for the subtask, it will
be rounded to the nearest integer.
    If your program has a runtime error or doesn’t adhere to the aforementioned protocol
in using the library, it will get 0 points for the whole subtask. To receive partial points
for finding a subset of the trasures, your program therefore needs to finish the search
gracefully by calling NextHunt.

Example

                Call                    Return value
                NextHunt(N, K)          𝑁 = 4, 𝐾 = 1
                Query(2, 0)             DIR_DOWN + DIR_RIGHT = 9
                Query(3, 1)             DIR_DOWN
                Query(3, 2)             TREASURE
                NextHunt(N, K)          𝑁 = −1, 𝐾 = −1



                                         Page 11 of 11
