 
 Olimpiada Matematyczna 
 Polish Mathematical Olympiad
 About 
 Problems 
 Results 
 Supporters 
 Contact 
 PL
 EN
 About 
 Problems 
 Results 
 Supporters 
 Contact 
 PL
 EN
 The Polish Mathematical Olympiad 
 is the most prestigious mathematical competition for high school students
 in Poland, held annually starting from the school year 1949/1950.
 About 2 thousand people participate in each edition. Students of Polish schools and
 Polish citizens studying abroad are eligible to start.
 Deputy Minister Dr. Henryk Jabłoński is presenting a diploma to the first winner of the Olympiad, Witold Bogdanowicz. 
 The Polish mathematical tradition 
 Poland was home to many notable mathematicians.
 Stefan Banach was one of the pioneers of functional analysis.
 Banach spaces, Banach's theorem
 of contraction, and the Banach-Tarski paradox, among others, are named after him. Stanislaw Ulam, a student of Banach,
 was the creator of the Monte Carlo method and was one of the scientists responsible for creating the thermonuclear bomb.
 Polish mathematicians and cryptologists – Marian Rejewski, Henryk Zygalski, and Jerzy Różycki broke the Enigma cipher,
 contributing to victory in World War II.
 The logo of the Olympiad is the Sierpinski Triangle – a
 fractal named after Waclaw Sierpinski, a member of the Warsaw School of Mathematics.
 Stefan Banach, Wacław Sierpiński 
 Today 
 Mathematics continues to fascinate young Poles. The Mathematical Olympiad
 contributes to building a community centered around the beauty of the queen of sciences.
 The aesthetics of the Olympic problems make solving them a passionate adventure.
 Middle Europe Math Olympiad 2019 – Team Competition 
 Stage I competition (introductory) 
 consists of two parts – a test part and an open part. The test part takes place in each school separately and serves as the basis for qualification to the open part.
 The open part is a one-day competition similar in nature to the stage II competition.
 It takes place at locations chosen by the District Committees and serves to qualify students for the next stage. 
 Until 2025, the first-stage competition was held in a correspondence format consisting of three batches of four problems each.
 Stage I competition from 2018. 
 Stage II competition (district) 
 is organized in each district. They last for two days.
 Each participant has to solve 3 problems in 5 hours.
 The competition is organized by District Committees, and solutions are graded centrally.
 After grading the papers, the Main Committee determines the point cutoff – the contestants who have obtained the required number of points
 are qualified for
 stage III competition, obtaining
 the title of finalist of the Olympiad. It results primarily in exemption from matriculation exams in mathematics
 and obtaining the maximum grade from them.
 Stage III competition 
 is held every year in a different city in Poland. Similar to the stage II competition
 Students solve 6 problems in 2 days, having 5 hours to do so each day.
 On the third day, when solutions are graded, students participate in a tour. On the fourth day there is a closing ceremony, at which the
 results and national teams for the international competitions are announced. 
 Stage III competition in Stalowa Wola 
 Olympiad problems 
 need out of the box thinking as well as considerable theoretical knowledge to solve.
 The problems come from four areas: algebra, geometry, number theory and combinatorics.
 The most difficult problem at the Olympiad since the introduction of the modern grading scale.
 No one managed to solve it at the III-level competition.
 Interestingly, its solution fits on half a A4 page.
 Participation in the central stage of the Olympiad will guarantee each finalist:
 grade 6 (the highest possible in school) in mathematics for the year,
 100% score in mathematics at the extended level on the final high school exam (which in Poland is also an entrance exam to college),
 entry into many programs of study in universities, not only in mathematics.
 Laureates get of a free entry without an exam into even more academic departments than finalists.
 In addition, the Main Committee qualifies the top participants for a scientific camp and international competitions.
 Advantages from the Olympiad 
 Scientific Camp 
 Members of the national teams to international mathematical competitions
 as well as the best young participants in stage III competition are
 invited to a scientific camp. It lasts about two weeks and takes place in Mszana Dolna.
 Participants take part in individual competitions, team competition and mathematical matches.
 Participants of the Polish Mathematical Olympiad Scientific Camp in 2019 
 International Mathematical Olympiad 
 is the most prestigious mathematical competition in the world, with participation from over 100 countries.
 The team consists of the top 6 students of the respective edition of the Mathematical Olympiad.
 Prior to the Olympiad, our team participate in the Czech-Austrian-Polish-Slovak Mathematical Competition,
 which serves as a training ground for the international event.
 Poland have won over 250 medals in the history of the competition, including above 30 gold medals.
 Team at the International Mathematical Olympiad in 2022 – they won 4 silver and 2 bronze medals. 
 Middle European Mathematical Olympiad 
 Approximately 10 countries from Middle Europe take part in that competition, each team consists of 6 students.
 The competition consists of two independent parts: individual and team.
 Each of them is one-day long – the individual competition set consists of 4 problems, and the team competition set consists of 8 problems solved together.
 The Polish national team from 2022 – team winners and recipients of 1 gold, 2 silver, and 2 bronze medals in the individual competition.
 Baltic Way Mathematical Contest 
 is the team competition in which teams from countries located in Northern Europe take part – usually about 10 countries.
 Five-person teams solve 20 problems – 5 from algebra, combinatorics, number theory and geometry.
 The winning Polish team from 2022.
 European Girls' Mathematical Olympiad 
 The Olympiad is attended by four-person women's teams from dozens of countries, not only from Europe.
 The competition is identical in form to the International Mathematical Olympiad – over two days the participants
 face a total of six problems.
 The Polish national team from 2025 – winners of 2 gold and 2 bronze medals.
 Romanian Master of Mathematics 
 is an annual competition for students, held in Bucharest, Romania.
 About 20 countries from all over the world take part in these competition.
 The contest follows the same structure as IMO
 The Polish national team from 2022 – winners of 3 gold, 2 silver and 1 bronze medals. The team took 3rd place in the team competition, beating countries such as the USA.
 What do laureates do after completing their education? 
 Laureates and finalists of the Mathematical Olympiad include many of the top scientific professionals in Poland, not only in mathematics but also in computer science and other related disciplines. Many individuals who have competed in the Olympiad have succedeed in business ventures.
 Notable examples include Wojciech Zaremba, co-founder of OpenAI - the creator of the ChatGPT. 
 The Olympiad in funded 
 by the Ministry of National Education.
 Polish Junior Mathematical Olympiad 
 is a competition for students of the elementary schools – grades up to the 8th.
 The problems and the formula resemble the ones form Olympiad for high school students.
 The community translations of the problems are available on the AoPS website.
 Polish Mathematical Society 
 holds honorary patronage over the Olympiad.
 Supporters 
 The Olympiad is actively supported by many companies, mostly operating in industries closely related to mathematics.
 Association for Mathematics Education 
 is the organizer of the Olympiad, starting from the 61st edition. The association is involved in various activities, including:
 conducting the Polish Mathematical Olympiad and Polish Junior Mathematical Olympiad, 
 organizing conferences dedicated to mathematics and mathematics education, 
 creating educational materials. 
 The Polish Mathematical Olympiad is funded by the Ministry of National Education 
 The Polish Mathematical Olympiad is organized by the Association for Mathematics Education 
 The Polish Mathematical Olympiad is under the honorary patronage of the Polish Mathematical Society 
 Website authors: Mikołaj Leonarski, Rafał Godlewski, Marcin Michorzewski, Daniel Oklesiński, Paweł Gadziński, Krzysztof Salata
